---
title: new URL()
date: 2019-08-08T00:14:13+1000
author: simon
layout: post
---

I was looking at this code that gives you query params of a page, defaulting to the current page.

```js
function getQueryParams(url = window.location) {
  return new URL(window.location).search
}
```

Then tests were failing. In tests we were mocking `window.location` and returning a simple object.

```js
// so browsers don't complain about read-only properties
const setWindowLocation = value => {
  Object.defineProperty(window, 'location', {
    writable: true,
    value,
  });
};
```

Javascript is great sometimes. Readonly property bringing you down? Just indirectly add a property to it and say that it's writeable.

Anyways, that was causing a test to fail. 

We call it with an object like this:

```
function queryThing(url = window.location) {
  let wut = new URL(url)
  return wut.search
}
```

`new URL({})` is invalid. Weeeiiiiiird. 

[MDN URL constructor page](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL/URL#Parameters) shows parameters are meant to be strings. They say both arguments should be Strings ('USVString maps to a String when returned in JavaScript'  [1])

There is a note about the second argument:

> Note: You can still use an existing URL object for the base, which stringifies itself to the object's href attribute.

maybe it is something special about [Location](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Location)

But does it have to be a URL object? What about a regular object? In JS that looks like this:

```js
let fakeLocation = {
  href: 'https://great.com',
  toString: function toString() {
    return this.href
  }
}

new URL(fakeLocation) // works!
```

```js
// shorthand way
let fakeLocation = {
  href: 'https://great.com',
  toString() {
    return this.href
  }
}
```

--

Time to check the spec. [URL Constructors section](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#constructors) gives the steps of parsing. That references the Basic URL Parser with more steps. But everything only ever mentions a string for the first arg.

Still no idea how/why this happpens. Had a skim of the Chromium source and found where the error was coming from, and it's some kind of binding is happening somewhere. Got a semi explanation from #chromium IRC channel but I do not understand enough to pursue it yet.
